[outdated] ZIPs 226 & 227 - ZSA Protocol: Transfer, Issuance and Burn (#649)
zcash/zips: zip-0227.rst

- Zcash Shielded Asset: an asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain, and, with this ZIP, belonging to the Orchard anonymity pool.
- Wrapped Asset: a ZSA asset with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.
- Issuance Action: an instance of a single issuance of a Zcash Shielded Asset. It defines the issuance of a single asset identifier.
- Issuance Bundle: the bundle in the transaction that contains all the issuance actions of that transaction.

Abstract
========

ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_ and ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_ propose in conjunction the Zcash Shielded Assets (ZSA) protocol, which is an extension of the Orchard protocol that enables the creation, transfer and burn of custom assets on the Zcash chain. The creation of such assets is defined in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_. The transfer and burn of such assets is defined in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_. This ZIP must only be implemented in conjuction with ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_, as the issuance mechanism is only valid for the ZSA transfer protocol, as it produces notes that can only be transferred under ZSA.

Motivation
==========

> The current Orchard protocol does not support custom assets. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and asset custody institutions for issuance and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Orchard protocol deployed in NU5 does not support custom assets. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and asset custody institutions for issuance and
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

bridging purposes.

Use Cases
=========

The design presented in this ZIP enables issuance of shielded assets in various modes:

> - The issuer knows in advance the receivers of the issued asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The issuer may or may not know the receivers of the issued asset in advance.
```

Reviewer 3: We suggest that every asset is always issued into a specific address. If you issue to yourself, we still call this "receiver is known". Did you have another use in mind?

Reviewer 4: So what you're saying is "the address of the receiver is always known in advance".

Does that statement belong in the requirements or consequences of the design, not in a section that specifically provides alternative modes?
(If there is no alternative, then "issuance of shielded assets in various modes" doesn't really apply.)

However, if you meant "the identity of the receiver is always known in advance", then here are some example use cases: - an address that is cryptographically impossible to spend from,
- an address that depends on solving a specific calculation, or
- a multi-signature address where most of the parties aren't known to the issuer.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense, yes, thanks! Adding in the suggestion.

> - The asset is of non-fungible type, where each asset type can be made part of a single “series”
> - The supply of the asset is limited or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The asset can be of non-fungible type, where each asset type can be made part of a single “series”.
- The supply of the asset can be limited in advance or not.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> - The assets can be wrapped versions of assets in other chains (as long as there is a bridge that supports it)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The asset can be a wrapped version of an asset issued by another chain (as long as there is a bridge that supports transfer of that asset between chains).
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

See the Concrete Applications section for more details.

Requirements
============

> - Any user of the Zcash block chain can issue custom assets on chain

Reviewer: Reminder: wallets need to communicate the names of assets in a non-confusing way to users. This could be done with a petname system or with a list of well-known assets.

Reviewer 2: Added this as a note in the Security and Privacy Considerations section, as suggested by @daira and @str4d.

- The issuance mechanism should enable tracking publicly the supply of the assets on the Zcash block chain

> - A user without knowledge of the private key of the issuer of a specific asset should not be able to issue that asset or change the attributes of such asset

Reviewer 2: Done.

> - The asset identification should be unique and different issuer keys should not be able to generate the same asset identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The asset identification should be unique (among all shielded pools) and different issuer public keys should not be able to generate the same asset identifier.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> - The asset identification should be unique and different issuer keys should not be able to generate the same asset identifier

Reviewer 4: Do we need to modify the unified address ZIP to add issuer, transfer, or any other keys?
https://zips.z.cash/zip-0316

Reviewer 2: No, no changes are necessary to the unified addresses.

Specification
=============

> As explained, the issuance protocol allows for a single issuance action to be sent to many receivers by mean of generating as many output notes as distinct recipients. Furthermore, every bundle can contain many issuance actions. Thus we divide the protocol spec in two sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained, the issuance protocol allows for a single issuance action to be sent to many receivers, by generating as many output notes as distinct recipients. Furthermore, every bundle can contain many issuance actions. Thus we divide the protocol spec in two sections.
```

Reviewer: Also move this paragraph and the whole contents of the Overview section below, to the Motivation section.

Reviewer 2: Have rearranged this.

Overview 

> --------

Reviewer: Move the contents of this Overview section to the Motivation section.

> In short, this specification enables only *transparent* issuance, since as a first step, transparency is important to properly test the applications that will be most used in the Zcash ecosystem, while enabling tracking of supply of assets. Any user of the blockchain can issue new asset types, yet only a single issuer (a set of keys) can issue that specific asset type, as the asset identifiers are tied to the issuer keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification enables only *transparent* issuance, since as a first step, transparency is important to properly test the applications that will be most used in the Zcash ecosystem, while enabling tracking of supply of assets. Any user of the blockchain can issue new asset types, yet only a single issuer (a set of keys) can issue that specific asset type, as the asset identifiers are tied to the issuer keys.
```

The protocol was designed with three main properties in mind:

> - at the time of issuance, the issuer can already allocate all the tokens to the corresponding owners by creating the corresponding (shielded) output notes to the respective addresses. As is implied, the issuance mechanism is itself transparent, but the allocation is totally private

Reviewer 5: Down in the `IssueAction` description, we see a lot of the detail of the notes; what does 'allocation is totally private' mean?

Reviewer 4: Specifically, the notes are not encrypted, so we will see who gets allocated how much of each issued asset.

Reviewer 2: We fixed this to not be ambiguous.

> - at the time of issuance, the issuer can already allocate all the tokens to the corresponding owners by creating the corresponding (shielded) output notes to the respective addresses. As is implied, the issuance mechanism is itself transparent, but the allocation is totally private
> - in a single issuance bundle, the issuer can publish many issuance actions, or in other words, create multiple custom assets
> - every issuance action contains the `finiteIssuance` boolean that defines whether that specific custom asset can have further tokens issued or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At the time of issuance, the issuer can already allocate all the tokens to the corresponding owners by creating the corresponding (shielded) output notes to the respective addresses. As is implied, the issuance mechanism is itself transparent, but the allocation is totally private.
- In a single issuance bundle, the issuer can publish many issuance actions, or in other words, create multiple custom assets.
- Every issuance action defines whether that specific custom asset can have further tokens issued or not.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> The issuance mechanism is broad enough for issuers to either create native assets on Zcash (i.e.: assets that originate on the Zcash blockchain), as well as for institutions to create bridges from other chains and import wrapped assets. In fact, the protocol described below enables, what we hope will be a useful set of, applications. The design decision is not to have a chosen name to describe the custom asset, but to delegate it to an off-chain mapping, as this would imply a land-grab “war”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issuance mechanism is broad enough for issuers to either create native assets on Zcash (i.e.: assets that originate on the Zcash blockchain), as well as for institutions to create bridges from other chains and import wrapped assets. In fact, the protocol described below enables what we hope will be a useful set of applications. The design decision is not to have a chosen name to describe the custom asset, but to delegate it to an off-chain mapping, as this would imply a land-grab “war”.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Issuance Keys
-------------

There are two keys relevant to the Issuer:

1. The `issuanceAuthorizingKey`, denoted as `isk`, is the key that is used to sign the issuance transaction. This key is used to authorize the issuance of a specific asset type, and is only used by the issuer. Throughout we also call this key the issuer signature key.

> 2. The `issuanceValidatingKey`, denoted as `ik`, is the key that is used to validate the issuance transaction. This key is used to validate the issuance of a specific asset type, and is used by all blockchain users (specifically the asset owners and consensus validators) to associate the asset in question with the issuer. Throughout we also call this key the issuer verification key.

Reviewer: It's unfortunate that these names start with `i` given the use of `ivk` already for incoming viewing keys in Sapling and Orchard.

The two keys are derived in an analogous manner to the `spendAuthorizingKey` and `spendValidatingKey` keys, using the same signature scheme, as described in ZIP 32 [#zip-0032]_ and in accordance with ZIP 316 [#zip-0316]_.

- The `issuanceAuthorizingKey` is derived directly from the `spendingKey`, `sk`, as a private signature key:

:math:`\mathsf{isk := ToScalar^{Orchard}(︀ PRF^{expand}_{sk} ([0x0a])}`

- The `issuanceValidatingKey` is derived from the `issuanceAuthorizingKey`, `isk`, as a public verification key:

:math:`\mathsf{ik := SpendAuthSig^{Orchard}.DerivePublic(isk)}`

> This allows the issuer to use the same wallet it usually uses to transfer assets, while keeping a disconnect from the other keys. Specifically, this method is aligned with the requirements and motivation of ZIP 32 [#zip-0032]_, and can further be in  It provides further anonymity and the ability to delegate issuance of an asset (or in the future, generate a multi-signature protocol) while the rest of the keys remain in the wallet safe.

Reviewer: It's unclear what "the `spendingKey`" refers to. If this is the Orchard spending key for a ZIP32 account, we think this is undesirable because the issuance protocol might need to be used for multiple shielded pools.

It is not necessary to tie the issuance key to a particular Orchard spending key in order for the issuance key to be recoverable from a wallet seed. We should instead carve out a namespace within the ZIP 32 hierarchy so that issuance keys can be derived from a wallet's seed phrase without being dependent on a particular protocol's key tree.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we were referring to the Orchard spending key. Is the undesirability due to having to revert back to Orchard key generation for issuance even after moving to a future shielded pool, for example? Are there other reasons as well?

> We should instead carve out a namespace within the ZIP 32 hierarchy so that issuance keys can be derived from a wallet's seed phrase without being dependent on a particular protocol's key tree

Issuance keys could instead be derived from a key generated from a wallet seed like in [Orchard master key generation](https://zips.z.cash/zip-0032#orchard-master-key-generation) with a new personalisation (eg. `ZcashIP32Issuance`).

Reviewer 2: We have recently made these changes, moving to a separately generated issuance key structure that gets generated from the wallet seed.

Asset Identifier
----------------

> For every new asset, there must be a new and unique identifier of the asset. Every asset is defined by the asset description, `asset_desc`, which is a global byte string (valid across all -future- Zcash protocols). From this asset descritpion, the specific asset identifier, `AssetId`, is derived with a `GroupHash` and used within the output notes, as defined by the specific protocol (e.g.: for now Orchard-style, using Pallas curve).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every new asset, there must be a new and unique identifier of the asset. Every asset is defined by the asset description, `asset_desc`, which is a global byte string (valid across all *future* Zcash protocols). From this asset description, the specific asset identifier, `AssetId`, is derived with a `GroupHash` and used within the output notes, as defined by the specific protocol (e.g.: for now Orchard-style, using Pallas curve).
```

Reviewer 2: Have added this in. As per our discussion, we also want to include a new Asset Digest definition. This will be done in a subsequent step, and I will add a further comment when that is done.

Reviewer 2: Have added the Asset Digest material where it seemed relevant.

The main requirement for the asset identifier is for it to be collision-free, as two different issuers MUST not be able to issue the same asset type. One way to achieve this is to make the identifier dependent on the issuer keys, as the issuer keys are unique to each issuer. We achieve this by deriving the asset identifier, `AssetId` as follows:

> :math:`\mathsf{AssetId := GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}\mathsf{(ik || asset_desc)}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`\mathsf{EncodeAssetId(ik, asset\_desc)} := ???`
:math:`\mathsf{AssetBase^{Protocol} := GroupHash^{Protocol}\mathsf{(EncodeAssetId(ik, asset\_desc))}`
```

> The main requirement for the asset identifier is for it to be collision-free, as two different issuers MUST not be able to issue the same asset type. One way to achieve this is to make the identifier dependent on the issuer keys, as the issuer keys are unique to each issuer. We achieve this by deriving the asset identifier, `AssetId` as follows:
> 
> :math:`\mathsf{AssetId := GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}\mathsf{(ik || asset_desc)}`
> 
> where
> 
> - `asset_desc` is the asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes, which includes any information pertaining to the issuance 
> - `issuanceValidatingKey` is the public key of the issuer, used to verify the signature on the transaction SIGHASH and is defined as `ik`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` be the asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes, which includes any information pertaining to the issuance.
Let :math:`\mathsf{ik}` be the issuance validating key of the issuer, a public key used to verify the signature on the issuance transaction's SIGHASH.

Define :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase^{Protocol}} := \mathsf{ZSAValueBase^{Protocol}}(\mathsf{EncodeAssetId(ik, asset\_desc)})`
where
:math:`\mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{ik}, \mathsf{asset\_desc}) := [0x00, \mathsf{length}(\mathsf{ik})] || \mathsf{ik} || \mathsf{asset\_desc}\!`.

In the case of Orchard, we define :math:`\mathsf{ZSAValueBase^{Orchard}}(\mathsf{asset\_id}) := \mathsf{GroupHash}^\mathbb{P}(\texttt{"z.cash:OrchardZSA"}, \mathsf{asset\_id})`
where :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}^\mathbb{P}` is defined as in [#protocol-concretegrouphashpallasandvesta].
```
and add a reference
```
.. [#protocol-concretegrouphashpallasandvesta] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2022.3.8. Section 5.4.9.8 Group Hash into Pallas and Vesta <protocol/protocol.pdf#concretegrouphashpallasandvesta>`_
```

Reviewer 2: Updated this. As per our discussion, we also want to include a new Asset Digest definition. This will be done in a subsequent step, and I will add a further comment when that is done.

Reviewer 2: Have added the Asset Digest material where it seemed relevant.

Global Issuance State
---------------------

Issuance requires the following additions to the global state: 

> - `previously_finalized`, a set of `AssetId` that have been finalized (i.e.: the `finalize` flag has been set to `1`).

Reviewer 4: Do we also need to store a global list of `AssetId`s or `asset_desc` that have been previously issued?

How will the same assets be recognised across pools, if we don't store `asset_desc`?

Reviewer 6: Storing `assetId`s and `asset_desc` for non finalized assets is not required for properly verify consensus.
However, this information is very relevant and can be tracked by the client as part of an analytics service. 

Across polls, assets are uniquely identified by the `assetId`(which is driven from `asset_desc`), so I don't think we need anything else.

Reviewer 4: Does this commit us to always using the Pallas group hash, even if we deprecate Orchard?

Reviewer 4: Specifically, the Orchard issuance action includes the `asset_desc`, not the `AssetId`, so we will always need the Pallas hash to be able to convert `asset_desc` to `AssetId` for verification.

Reviewer 2: The design has now been updated such that the `AssetId` is global, even across possible future shielded pools, with hashing done into the Orchard shielded pool at present. In future, a different hash could be used for a different pool.

Issuance Action Description

> ---------------------------

Reviewer 4: All serialized formats should be part of a new ZIP for the v6 transaction format. That way, we can make sure they are complete and consistent when reviewing it. (And they are easier to implement.)

You could start by copying the Orchard format from:
https://zips.z.cash/zip-0225

This can be a very rough draft, we'll fix up any issues later.

Reviewer 2: The V6 transaction ZIP draft has been created [here](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/687), we will help add our additions in there via reviews/comments.

An issuance action, `IssueAction`, is the instance of issuing a specific custom asset, and contains the following fields:
- `asset_desc`: the asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes

> - `notes`: an array containing the unencrypted output notes of the recipients of the asset, of type `Note`

Reviewer 5: We can't find rationale in here for why these notes are unencrypted, which doesn't match the requirements in the overview section, or why the value balance mechanism introduced in the (now) ZIP 226 draft is not being used here

- `finalize`: a boolean that defines whether the issuance of that specific custom asset is finalized or not

> Once `finiteSupply` is set to 1, it cannot be unset. For assets whose `finalize = 1`, no further tokens can be issued, so as seen below, the validators will reject the transaction. For assets whose `finalize = 0`, new issuance actions can be issued in future transactions. These must use the same asset description, `asset_desc`, and can either maintain `finalize = 0` or change it to `1`, denoting the last transaction containing issuance of such custom asset.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once `finalize` is set to 1, it cannot be unset. For assets whose `finalize = 1`, no further tokens can be issued, so as seen below, the validators will reject the transaction. For assets whose `finalize = 0`, new issuance actions can be issued in future transactions. These must use the same asset description, `asset_desc`, and can either maintain `finalize = 0` or change it to `1`, denoting the last transaction containing issuance of such custom asset.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Reviewer: If `finalize = 1` takes effect after the block containing the finalization tx, then in order to conclude that it has to be the last tx issuing the asset, we must enforce that there can only be at most one issuance tx that sets `finalize = 1` for a given asset in a block. Please add that rule.

Reviewer 2: This has been removed, we no longer say it is the last transaction

  
================= ================== ========================== ========================================================================
Size              Name               Data Type                  Description
================= ================== ========================== ========================================================================

> Varies            asset_desc         byte                       Uni-code encoded string of varied size, up to 512 bytes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Varies            asset_desc         byte                       UTF-8 encoded string of varied size, up to 512 bytes
```

Reviewer 2: Done

- `ik`: the `issuanceValidatingKey`, that allows the validators to verify that the `AssetId` is properly associated with the issuer
- `actions`: an array of issuance actions, of type `IssueAction`
- `authorization`: the signature of the transaction SIGHASH, signed by the `issuanceAuthorizingKey`, `isk`, that validates the issuance 

The issuance bundle is then added within the transaction format as a new bundle. This structure will be added to the v6 transaction format.

======= ================== ========================== =========================================================================
Bytes              Name               Data Type                  Description
======= ================== ========================== =========================================================================
Varies  nIssueActions      compactSize                The number of issuance actions in the bundle
Varies  vIssueActions      IssueAction[nIssueActions] A sequence of issuance actions descriptions
32      ik                 byte[32]                   The public verification key of the issuer, used to validate the signature

> 64      authorization      byte[64]                   The signature of the transaction SIGHASH, signed by the issuer

Reviewer 4: Each `IssueAction` can have a different asset description, which corresponds to a different `ik` and `authorization`.

So I think `ik` and `authorization` need to move to `IssueAction`.

Reviewer 4: So that meets this requirement:
> - The asset identification should be unique and different issuer keys should not be able to generate the same asset identifier

But we also need to add a requirement that the same issuer key can be used to issue different assets in the same transaction (or issuance bundle in this case).

Reviewer 2: Added this

======= ================== ========================== =========================================================================

Issuance Protocol
-----------------
The issuer program performs the following operations

For all actions `IssueAction`:
- encode `asset_desc` as 512 byte-string

> - compute `AssetId` as :math:`GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}(ik || asset_desc)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- compute :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase^{Protocol}} := \mathsf{ZSAValueBase^{Protocol}}(\mathsf{EncodeAssetId(ik, asset\_desc)})`
```

Reviewer 2: Have made this change. The Asset Digest definition will modify this, and I will add a further comment when that is done.

Reviewer 2: Have added the Asset Digest material changes.

- set the `finalize` boolean as desired (if more more issuance actions are to be created for this asset identifier, set `finalize = 0`, otherwise set `finalize = 1`)
- For each recipient `i`:

>     - generate a ZSA output note as :math:`\mathsf{ note_i =(d_i, {pk_d}_i, v_i, \rho_i, \psi_i, \mathsf{AssetId}, rcm_i)}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - generate a ZSA output note that includes the Asset Base. For an Orchard-based ZSA note this is :math:`\mathsf{note}_i = (\mathsf{d}_i, \mathsf{pk}_{\mathsf{d},i}, \mathsf{v}_i, \rho_i, \psi_i, \mathsf{AssetBase^{Orchard}}, \mathsf{rcm}_i)}\!`.
```

Reviewer 2: The Asset Base term is undefined, do you mean Asset identifier?
```suggestion
    - generate a ZSA output note that includes the Asset Base. For an Orchard-based ZSA note this is :math:`\mathsf{note}_i = (\mathsf{d}_i, \mathsf{pk}_{\mathsf{d},i}, \mathsf{v}_i, \rho_i, \psi_i, \mathsf{AssetId}, \mathsf{rcm}_i)}\!`.
```

Reviewer 2: Have made this change. The Asset Digest definition will modify this, and I will add a further comment when that is done.

Reviewer 2: Have added the Asset Digest material where it seemed relevant (it wasn't necessary at this location)

- encode the `IssueAction` into the vector `vIssueActions` of the bundle

For the `IssueBundle`:
- encode the `vIssueActions` vector
- encode the `ik` as 32 byte-string
- sign the `SIGHASH` of the transaction with the `issuanceAuthorizingKey`, `isk`, using the RedPallas signature scheme. The signature is then added to the issuance bundle.

> NOTE that the commitment is not included in the `IssuanceAction` itsefl. As explained below, it is later computed by the validators and added to the `NoteCommitmentTree`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE that the commitment is not included in the `IssuanceAction` itself. As explained below, it is later computed by the validators and added to the `NoteCommitmentTree`.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

Concrete applications
---------------------

**Bridging Assets**
Issuers can wrap assets defined in other chains and issue them at once in a single transaction. The specifics of the bridge are not implemented in the protocol, but there are several ways we conceive issuers can build these bridges (at least centralized bridges):

> - First, the issuance and burn mechanism can be used in conjunction to determine the 

Reviewer 5: This ends incompletely?

**Asset Features**
- By using the `finalize` boolean and the burning mechanism defined in [#zip-0226]_, issuers can control the supply production of any asset associated to their issuer keys. For example,
    - by setting `finalize = 1` from the first issuance action for that asset type, the issuer is in essence creating a one-time issuance transaction. This is useful when the max supply is capped from the beginning and the distribution is known in advance. All tokens are issued at once and distributed as needed.
- Issuers can also stop the existing supply production of any asset associated to their issuer keys. This could be done by

>     - issuing a last set of tokens of that specific `AssetId`, while at the same time setting `finalize = 1`, or by

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - issuing a last set of tokens of that specific `AssetId` during which `finalize = 1`, or by
```

Reviewer 5: This is executing an `Issuance Action`, which hasn't really been defined by this point in the document

Reviewer 2: Done.

Reviewer 2: Have added a bullet clarifying this.

    - issuing a transaction with a single note in the issuance action pertaining to that `AssetId`, where the note will contain a `value = 0`. This can be used for application-specific purposes (NFT collections) or for security purposes to revoke the asset issuance (see Security and Privacy Considerations).

> - Furthermore, NFT issuance is enabled by issuing in a single bundle several issuance actions, where each `AssetId` corresponds to `value = 1` at the fundamental unit level. Issuers and users should make sure that `finalize = 1` for each of the actions in this scenario.

Reviewer 5: This section feels like a hybrid of use-case and rationale; should this be in the `Specification` section?

Reviewer 5: A section after would allow using the `Specification` for particular applications such as wrapping

Reviewer 2: Have rearranged this

Consensus Rule Changes
----------------------

For the IssueBundle,

> - Verify the RedPallas-based issuance authorization signature on `SIGHASH`, `authorization` is valid, based on `authorization.VerifySig(ik, SIGHASH)`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Verify the RedPallas-based issuance authorization signature on `SIGHASH`, `authorization`, is verified by invoking `authorization.VerifySig(ik, SIGHASH)`
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> - Verify the RedPallas-based issuance authorization signature on `SIGHASH`, `authorization` is valid, based on `authorization.VerifySig(ik, SIGHASH)`

Reviewer 5: `authorization` field in the IssuanceBundle is 64 bytes, this needs to be explicitly serialized / deserialized and have parsing rules for the signature type itself

For each `IssueAction` in `IssueBundle`:

> - check that `asset_desc` is a string with `0 < byte size <= 512`

Reviewer 5: Should this always be 512 bytes? If not, we need a length check to be parsed and then the asset_desc checked against that

Reviewer 5: This may support a V6 transaction draft ZIP that includes these encoding details

Reviewer 5: We can duplicate the NU5 V5 transaction table to do so
https://github.com/zcash/zips/blob/main/zip-0225.rst#transaction-format

> - retrieve `AssetId` from the first note in the sequence and check that `AssetId = GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}(ik || asset_desc)` is properly derived

Reviewer 5: This detail should be wrapped up as a function that can be invoked here, instead of duplication and possible divergance

Reviewer 2: Done.

- check that the `AssetId` does not exist in the `previously_finalized` set in the global state

> - check that every note in the `IssueAction` contains the same `AssetId` and also that every note is of type `Note` and is properly constructed as :math:`note = (\mathsf{g_d, pk_d, v, \rho, \psi, AssetId})`

Reviewer 5: All current audiences of this document leverage either strongly-typed languages such as Rust or strongly-typed abstractions on top of C/C++; can these 'properly constructed' notes/ rules be encapsulated as types in this document?

Reviewer 2: Has been updated for better typing.

If all of the above checks pass, do the following:

> - For each note, compute the note commitment as :math:`cm = \mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, AssetId)}` and

Reviewer 5: This detail should be wrapped up as a function that can be invoked here, instead of duplication and possible divergence

Reviewer 2: Done.

- add `cm` to the Merkle tree of note commitments, `NoteCommitmentTree`
- If `finalize = 1`, add `AssetId` to the `previously_finalized` set in the global state

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: Done?

Rationale
=========
The following is a list of rationale for different decisions made in the proposal:

- The issuance key structure was kept aligned to the original key tree in order to ease issuance integration with wallets and to prevent users from having to manage multiple keys and secrets.
- the `asset_desc` is a general byte string in order to allow for a wide range of information type to be included that may be associated with the assets. Some are:
    - links for storage such as for NFTs
    - other metadata for native assets
    - bridging information for wrapped assets (chain of origin, issuer name, etc)

>     - information to be committed by the issuer, though not enforceable by the protocol

Reviewer 5: Can we add rationale for why notes remain public?

TxId Digest
===========

> A new issuance transaction digest algorithm is defined that constructs the identifier for an issuance transaction. Each branch of the tree of hashes will correspond to a specific subset of transaction data. The overall structure of the hash is as follows; each name referenced here will be described in detail below::

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A new issuance transaction digest algorithm is defined that constructs the identifier for an issuance transaction. Each branch of the tree of hashes will correspond to a specific subset of transaction data. The overall structure of the hash is as follows; each name referenced here will be described in detail below:
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

    issuance_txid_digest
    ├── issueActions
    └── issuerVerificationKey

In the specification below, nodes of the tree are presented in depth-first order.

issuance_txid_digest
--------------------
A BLAKE2b-256 hash of the following values ::

   T.1: issueActions            (field encoding bytes)
   T.2: issuerVerificationKey   (field encoding bytes)

The personalization field of this hash is set to::

>   "ZTxIdOrcZSAIssue"

Reviewer 5: This is bound to Orchard pool/parameters which may not be what we want

>   "ZTxIdOrcZSAIssue"

Reviewer 4: The SIGHASH changes should become a new section in ZIP-244, with a note that it will be deployed in whichever network upgrade includes ZSAs:
https://zips.z.cash/zip-0244

Reviewer 2: As per our syncs, we will have sections in our ZIPs (226 and 227) detailing the changes to `txid_digest` and `SIGHASH`, and the changes to ZIP 244 (or migration to a newer ZIP) will be done subsequently

T.1 issueActions
````````````````
A byte encoding of Issue Action information for all Issue Actions belonging to the transaction. For each Action, the following elements are included in the hash::

   T.1a: notes                   (field encoding bytes)
   T.1b: assetDescription        (field encoding bytes)

>    T.1c: isFinalized             (1 byte)

Reviewer 4: Please specify this as a flags field with reserved flags, instead of using an entire byte for a boolean value.

For example, see `flagsOrchard` in the v5 transaction format:
https://github.com/zcash/zips/blob/main/zip-0225.rst#transaction-format

Reviewer 2: Have replaced `isFinalized` with a `flagsIssuance` byte, with LSB the flag, others set to 0.

T.1a: notes
'''''''''''
A byte encoding of Note information for all Notes belonging to the Action. For each Note, the following elements are included in the hash::

   T.1a.1: recipient                    (field encoding bytes)
   T.1a.2: value                        (field encoding bytes)
   T.1a.3: asset                        (field encoding bytes)
   T.1a.4: rho                          (field encoding bytes)
   T.1a.5: rseed                        (field encoding bytes)

T.1a.1: recipient
.................
Raw Address encoded as specified in [Zcash Protocol Spec § 5.6.4.2: Orchard Raw Payment Addresses].

T.1a.2: value
.............
Note value encoded as little-endian 8-byte representation of u64 raw value.

T.1a.3: asset
.............
Asset ID encoded as 32-byte representation of Pallas point.

T.1a.4: rho
...........
Nullifier encoded as 32-byte representation of Pallas point.

T.1a.5: rseed
.............
The ZIP 212 32-byte seed randomness for a note.

T.1b: assetDescription
''''''''''''''''''''''
UTF-8 encoding of the asset description string.

T.1c: isFinalized
'''''''''''''''''

> 1-byte representation of a boolean flag that is set to 'true' if the asset type was finalized in this action and 'false' otherwise. 'True' is represented as 1, 'false' as 0.

Reviewer 4: You could copy-paste-edit the `flagsOrchard` description here:
https://github.com/zcash/zips/blob/main/zip-0225.rst#transaction-format

Reviewer 2: Done.

T.2 issuerVerificationKey
`````````````````````````
A byte encoding of issuer verification key for the bundle as defined in [Zcash Protocol Spec § 4.2.3: Orchard Key Components].

Security and Privacy Considerations
===================================

**Issuer Key or AssetId Compromise**

> The design of this protocol does not allow for a rotation of the `issuerValidatingKey`, that would allow for replacing the key of a specific asset (see Future Work). In case of compromise, the following actions are recommended:

Reviewer 5: `issuerVerificationKey` or `issuerValidatingKey`? It varies throughout

Reviewer 2: Have made this consistent.

> - If an asset ID is compromised (and not the issuer verification key), the `finalize` boolean for that asset should be set to `0` and a new `AssetId` generated instead.

Reviewer 5: Does this mean a bridge for a particular assetId is compromised? That is not described or specified in this document. This document would indicate `assetId` compromise involves some sort of preimage or collision attack involving GroupHash

Reviewer 2: We removed the portions that were not relevant to this specification.

> - If an issuer verification key is compromised, the `finalize` boolean for all the assets issued with that key should be set to `0` and the issuer should change to a new spending key altogether (for the purpose of issuance), and issue new assets, each with a new `AssetId`.

Reviewer 5: Signing key?

Reviewer 5: Key rotation left to the future?

Reviewer 2: Changed to issuance authorizing key.

> **Briding Assets**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Bridging Assets**
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

For bridging purposes, the secure method of off-boarding assets is to burn an asset with the burning mechanism in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_. Users should be aware of issuers that demand the assets be sent to a specific address on the Zcash chain to be redeemed elsewhere, as this may not reflect the real reserve value of the specific wrapped asset.

Other Considerations
====================

Implementing Zcash Nodes
------------------------

> Although not enforced in the global state, it is recommended that Zcash full validators keep track of the total supply of assets as a mutable mapping `issuanceSupplyInfoMap` from `AssetId` to `issuanceSupplyInfoMap := (totalSupply, finalize)` in order to properly keep track of the total supply for different asset types. This is useful for wallets and other applications that need to keep track of the total supply of assets.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Although not enforced in the global state, it is RECOMMENDED that Zcash full validators keep track of the total supply of assets as a mutable mapping `issuanceSupplyInfoMap` from `AssetId` to `issuanceSupplyInfoMap := (totalSupply, finalize)` in order to properly keep track of the total supply for different asset types. This is useful for wallets and other applications that need to keep track of the total supply of assets.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

2. The issuance validating key, denoted as :math:`\mathsf{ik}`, is the key that is used to validate the issuance transaction. This key is used to validate the issuance of a specific Asset type, and is used by all block chain users (specifically the Asset owners and consensus validators) to associate the Asset in question with the issuer. Throughout we also call this key the issuer verification key.

The two keys are derived in an analogous manner to the spend authorizing key and spend validating key, using the same signature scheme, as described in ZIP 32 [#zip-0032]_ and in accordance with ZIP 316 [#zip-0316]_.

- The issuance authorizing key is derived directly from the spending key, :math:`\mathsf{sk}`, as a private signature key:

.. math:: \mathsf{isk := ToScalar^{Orchard}(︀ PRF^{expand}_{sk} ([0x0a])}

- The issuance validating key is derived from the issuance authorizing key, :math:`\mathsf{isk}`, as a public verification key:

.. math:: \mathsf{ik := SpendAuthSig^{Orchard}.DerivePublic(isk)}

> This allows the issuer to use the same wallet it usually uses to transfer Assets, while keeping a disconnect from the other keys. Specifically, this method is aligned with the requirements and motivation of ZIP 32 [#zip-0032]_. It provides further anonymity and the ability to delegate issuance of an Asset (or in the future, generate a multi-signature protocol) while the rest of the keys remain in the wallet safe.

Reviewer 5: We may encourage versioning in the issuance key derivation, otherwise we are bound to this parameter set (the Pallas curve) forever

// @str4d

Reviewer 2: Issuance key derivation has changed to be similar to ZIP 32, based on discussions in our syncs.

- In a single issuance bundle, the issuer can publish many issuance actions, or in other words, create multiple Custom Assets.
- Every issuance action contains the ``finalize`` boolean that defines whether that specific Custom Asset can have further tokens issued or not.

The issuance mechanism is broad enough for issuers to either create Assets on Zcash (i.e. Assets that originate on the Zcash block chain), as well as for institutions to create bridges from other chains and import Wrapped Assets. In fact, the protocol described below enables what we hope will be a useful set of applications. The design decision is not to have a chosen name to describe the custom Asset, but to delegate it to an off-chain mapping, as this would imply a land-grab “war”.

Issuance Authorization Signature Scheme
---------------------------------------

The requirement of cryptographic authorization in order to issue new Assets or change attributes of existing Assets is met by using a signature to prove knowledge of the issuance key used to authorize the issuance of the Asset, similar to what is done with the Spend Authorization Signature [#protocol-spendauthsig]_.

> We define the issuance authorization signature scheme :math:`\mathsf{IssueAuthSig}` identically to the Orchard spend authorization signature scheme, :math:`\mathsf{SpendAuthSig^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`, that is, as :math:`RedPallas` with key re-randomization and with generator :math:`\mathcal{P}_{\mathbb{G}} = \mathcal{G}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` [#protocol-concretespendauthsig]_.

Reviewer 2: Have added the different base.

    - issuing a transaction with a single note in the issuance action pertaining to that :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, where the note will contain a ``value = 0``. This can be used for application-specific purposes (NFT collections) or for security purposes to revoke the Asset issuance (see Security and Privacy Considerations).

- Furthermore, NFT issuance is enabled by issuing in a single bundle several issuance actions, where each :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` corresponds to ``value = 1`` at the fundamental unit level. Issuers and users should make sure that ``finalize = 1`` for each of the actions in this scenario.

Consensus Rule Changes
----------------------

For the IssueBundle:

- Verify the RedPallas-based issuance authorization signature on `SIGHASH`, `authorization`, is verified by invoking `authorization.VerifySig(ik, SIGHASH)`

For each `IssueAction` in `IssueBundle`:

- check that :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` is a string with `0 < byte size <= 512`.
- retrieve :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` from the first note in the sequence and check that :math:`\mathsf{AssetId = GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}(ik || asset\_desc)}` is properly derived.

> - check that the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` does not exist in the ``previously_finalized`` set in the global state.

Reviewer 4: This rule is ambiguous, there are two possible interpretations:
1. `finalize` must not have been set to `1` in any previous _transaction_ in this chain
2. `finalize` must not have been set to `1` in any previous _block_ in this chain

Alternative 1 is the most consistent with the transparent rules, which allow spends of outputs created in the same block.

Alternative 2 is the most consistent with the shielded rules, where spends require an anchor from a previous block. It also makes parallel verification and block production easier to implement, because we don't have to check an extra rule for transactions in the same block.

Reviewer: Note the interaction between parallel verification and whether it is possible to say that an issuance tx with `finalize = 1` is the "last transaction" that issues the corresponding asset. If no interaction between issuance txs in a block is desired then we need Alternative 2 *and also* no check that there is not more than one tx with `finalize = 1` in a block for the same asset. In that case, describing a tx with `finalize = 1` is the last issuance tx for the asset would be incorrect.

Reviewer 2: We updated to use Alternative 2.

- The issuance validating key is derived from the issuance authorizing key, :math:`\mathsf{isk}`, as a public verification key:

.. math:: \mathsf{ik} := \mathsf{IssueAuthSig}.\mathsf{DerivePublic}(\mathsf{isk})

This allows the issuer to use the same wallet it usually uses to transfer Assets, while keeping a disconnect from the other keys. Specifically, this method is aligned with the requirements and motivation of ZIP 32 [#zip-0032]_. It provides further anonymity and the ability to delegate issuance of an Asset (or in the future, generate a multi-signature protocol) while the rest of the keys remain in the wallet safe.

The derivation of these keys are shown in the following diagram:

.. figure:: zip-0227-key-components-zsa.png
    :width: 450px
    :align: center
    :figclass: align-center

    Diagram of Issuance Key Components for the ZSA Protocol

Asset Identifier
----------------

For every new Asset, there must be a new and unique Asset Identifier. We define this to be a globally unique pair :math:`(\mathsf{ik}, \mathsf{asset\_desc})`, where :math:`\mathsf{ik}` is the issuance key and :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` is a byte string.

> A given Asset Identifier is used across all Zcash protocols that support ZSAs -- that is, the Orchard-based ZSA protocol and potentially future Zcash shielded protocols. For this Asset Identifier, we derive an Asset Digest, :math:`\mathsf{AssetDigest}`, which is simply is a :math:`\mathsf{BLAKE2b-256}` hash of the Asset Identifier.

Reviewer: I think we'd prefer this to remain as BLAKE2b-512, so that there is no entropy bottleneck when generating a ~256-bit asset base from it.

Define :math:`\mathsf{AssetDigest_{\mathsf{AssetId}}} := \textsf{BLAKE2b-512}(\mathtt{''ZZSA-AssetDigest''},\; \mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{AssetId}))`,
where

- :math:`\mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{AssetId}) = \mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{ik}, \mathsf{asset\_desc}) := \mathsf{0x00} || \mathsf{repr}_{\mathbb{P}}(\mathsf{ik}) || \mathsf{asset\_desc}\!`.

Define :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase^{Protocol}_{\mathsf{AssetId}}} := \mathsf{ZSAValueBase^{Protocol}}(\mathsf{AssetDigest}_{\mathsf{AssetId}})`,
where

In the case of Orchard, we define :math:`\mathsf{ZSAValueBase^{Orchard}}(\mathsf{asset\_id}) := \mathsf{GroupHash}^\mathbb{P}(\texttt{"z.cash:OrchardZSA"}, \mathsf{asset\_id})`
where :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}^\mathbb{P}` is defined as in [#protocol-concretegrouphashpallasandvesta]_.

The relations between the Asset Identifier, Asset Digest, and Asset Base are shown in the following diagram:

.. figure:: zip-0227-asset-identifier-relation.png
    :width: 600px
    :align: center
    :figclass: align-center

    Diagram relating the Asset Identifier, Asset Digest, and Asset Base in the ZSA Protocol

Global Issuance State
---------------------

> Issuance requires the following additions to the global state: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issuance requires the following additions to the global state defined at block boundaries:
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> - ``previously_finalized``, a set of :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` that have been finalized (i.e.: the ``finalize`` flag has been set to ``1``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :math:`\mathsf{previously\_finalized}`, a set of :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` that have been finalized (i.e.: the ``finalize`` flag has been set to ``1`` in some issuance transaction preceding the block boundary).
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Issuance Action Description
---------------------------

An issuance action, `IssueAction`, is the instance of issuing a specific custom Asset, and contains the following fields:

- :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`: the Asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes
- `notes`: an array containing the unencrypted output notes of the recipients of the Asset, of type `Note`
- ``finalize``: a boolean that defines whether the issuance of that specific custom Asset is finalized or not

> Once ``finalize`` is set to 1, it cannot be unset. For Assets whose ``finalize = 1``, no further tokens can be issued, so as seen below, the validators will reject the transaction. For Assets whose ``finalize = 0``, new issuance actions can be issued in future transactions. These must use the same Asset description, :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`, and can either maintain ``finalize = 0`` or change it to ``finalize = 1``, denoting the last transaction containing issuance of such custom Asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once ``finalize`` is set to 1, it cannot be unset. For Assets whose ``finalize = 1``, no further tokens can be issued, so as seen below, the validators will reject the transaction. For Assets whose ``finalize = 0``, new issuance actions can be issued in future transactions. These must use the same Asset description, :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`, and can either maintain ``finalize = 0`` or change it to ``finalize = 1``, denoting that this custom Asset cannot be issued after the containing block.
```

Reviewer 2: Added in, as we discussed

::

  ZIP: 227
  Title: Issuance of Zcash Shielded Assets
  Owners: Pablo Kogan <pablo@qed-it.com>
          Vivek Arte <vivek@qed-it.com>

>           Daira Hopwood <daira@electriccoin.co>

Reviewer 2: Done.

          Jack Grigg <str4d@electriccoin.co>

>           Deidre Connolly <deirdre@zfnd.org>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
          Deirdre Connolly <deirdre@zfnd.org>
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

The protocol was designed with three main properties in mind:

- At the time of issuance, the issuer can already allocate all the tokens to the corresponding owners by creating the corresponding (shielded) output notes to the respective addresses. As is implied, the issuance mechanism is itself transparent, but the allocation is totally private.
- In a single issuance bundle, the issuer can publish many issuance actions, or in other words, create multiple Custom Assets.
- Every issuance action contains the ``finalize`` boolean that defines whether that specific Custom Asset can have further tokens issued or not.

The issuance mechanism is broad enough for issuers to either create Assets on Zcash (i.e. Assets that originate on the Zcash block chain), as well as for institutions to create bridges from other chains and import Wrapped Assets. In fact, the protocol described below enables what we hope will be a useful set of applications. The design decision is not to have a chosen name to describe the custom Asset, but to delegate it to an off-chain mapping, as this would imply a land-grab “war”.

> Issuance Keys & Issuance Authorization Signature Scheme
> -------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Issuance Keys and Issuance Authorization Signature Scheme
---------------------------------------------------------
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

The derivation of these keys are shown in the following diagram:

.. figure:: zip-0227-key-components-zsa.png
    :width: 450px
    :align: center
    :figclass: align-center

    Diagram of Issuance Key Components for the ZSA Protocol

Asset Identifier
----------------

For every new Asset, there must be a new and unique Asset Identifier. We define this to be a globally unique pair :math:`(\mathsf{ik}, \mathsf{asset\_desc})`, where :math:`\mathsf{ik}` is the issuance key and :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` is a byte string.

A given Asset Identifier is used across all Zcash protocols that support ZSAs -- that is, the Orchard-based ZSA protocol and potentially future Zcash shielded protocols. For this Asset Identifier, we derive an Asset Digest, :math:`\mathsf{AssetDigest}`, which is simply is a :math:`\textsf{BLAKE2b-512}` hash of the Asset Identifier.
From the Asset Digest, we derive a specific Asset Base within each such shielded protocol (for example :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}_{\mathsf{AssetId}}` for the Orchard-based ZSA protocol), using the applicable hash-to-curve algorithm. This Asset Base is included in shielded notes.

Let 

> - :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` be the asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes, which includes any information pertaining to the issuance.

Reviewer 4: Which version of UTF-8?

Here's how another project defined UTF-8 in a way that doesn't change with unicode versions:
https://github.com/torproject/torspec/blob/main/proposals/285-utf-8.txt#L70-L105

Reviewer 2: As in the next comment, we fixed this to recommend it be a well-formed UTF-8 code sequence, without making it a MUST.

> - :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` be the asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes, which includes any information pertaining to the issuance.

Reviewer: There is not currently any case in which Zcash consensus depends on the definition of UTF-8. (For memo fields in decrypted shielded coinbase outputs, the plaintext memo is not required to be well-formed UTF-8, since the relevant consensus rule only requires that decryption with the zero $\mathsf{ovk}$ does not return $\bot$.)

Also, "UTF-8 encoded string" is ambiguous as to whether it is required to be well-formed and the applicable version of Unicode (the definition of "well-formed" UTF-8 changed in Unicode 3.1 and [again in Unicode 3.2](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr28/tr28-3.html#conformance), for example).

Either:
1. Define the asset description as a byte sequence and say that it SHOULD be a well-formed UTF-8 code unit sequence according to Unicode 15.0.0 or later; or
2. Say that it is a consensus rule that the asset description MUST be well-formed UTF-8 code unit sequence according to exactly [Unicode 15.0.0 chapter 3, clause D92](https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode15.0.0/ch03.pdf).

In either case, clarify that it MAY include encoded characters that are unassigned in any particular version of Unicode. I suggest 1. rather than 2.

Reviewer 2: Went ahead with alternative 1.

For the IssueBundle:

- Verify the RedPallas-based issuance authorization signature on `SIGHASH`, `authorization`, is verified by invoking `authorization.VerifySig(ik, SIGHASH)`

For each `IssueAction` in `IssueBundle`:

- check that :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` is a string with `0 < byte size <= 512`.
- retrieve :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` from the first note in the sequence and check that :math:`\mathsf{AssetId = GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}(ik || asset\_desc)}` is properly derived.
- check that the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` does not exist in the ``previously_finalized`` set in the global state.
- check that every note in the `IssueAction` contains the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` and is properly constructed as :math:`note = (\mathsf{g_d, pk_d, v, \rho, \psi, AssetId})`.

If all of the above checks pass, do the following:

- For each note, compute the note commitment as :math:`\mathsf{cm} = \mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, AssetId)}` as defined in the Note Structure and Commitment section of ZIP 226 [#zip-0226-notestructure]_ and
- add :math:`\mathsf{cm}` to the Merkle tree of note commitments, `NoteCommitmentTree`.

> - If ``finalize = 1``, add :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` to the ``previously_finalized`` set in the global state.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- If ``finalize = 1``, add :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` to the ``previously_finalized`` set immediately after the block in which this transaction occurs.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

The requirement of cryptographic authorization in order to issue new Assets or change attributes of existing Assets is met by using a signature to prove knowledge of the issuance key used to authorize the issuance of the Asset, similar to what is done with the Spend Authorization Signature [#protocol-spendauthsig]_.

We define the issuance authorization signature scheme :math:`\mathsf{IssueAuthSig}` similar to the Orchard spend authorization signature scheme, :math:`\mathsf{SpendAuthSig}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` [#protocol-concretespendauthsig]_. 

> Specifically, we instantiate :math:`\mathsf{IssueAuthSig}` as :math:`\mathsf{RedPallas}` with key re-randomization and with generator :math:`\mathcal{P}_{\mathbb{G}} = \mathcal{G}^{\mathsf{Issuance}} := \mathsf{GroupHash}^\mathbb{P}(\texttt{"z.cash:ZSA"}, \texttt{"Issuance"})` where :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}^\mathbb{P}` is defined as in [#protocol-concretegrouphashpallasandvesta]_.

Reviewer 5: On instantiating the IssueAuthSig as RedPallas with key re-randomization, are issuance keys ever re-randomized?

Reviewer 2: Edited based on our discussion to mention it is without key re-randomization.

A given Asset Identifier is used across all Zcash protocols that support ZSAs -- that is, the Orchard-based ZSA protocol and potentially future Zcash shielded protocols. For this Asset Identifier, we derive an Asset Digest, :math:`\mathsf{AssetDigest}`, which is simply is a :math:`\mathsf{BLAKE2b-256}` hash of the Asset Identifier.
From the Asset Digest, we derive a specific Asset Base within each such shielded protocol (for example :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}_{\mathsf{AssetId}}` for the Orchard-based ZSA protocol), using the applicable hash-to-curve algorithm. This Asset Base is included in shielded notes.

Let 

- :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` be the asset description, a UTF-8 encoded string of up to 512 bytes, which includes any information pertaining to the issuance.
- :math:`\mathsf{ik}` be the issuance validating key of the issuer, a public key used to verify the signature on the issuance transaction's SIGHASH.

Define :math:`\mathsf{AssetDigest_{\mathsf{AssetId}}} := \mathsf{BLAKE2b\text{-}256}(\mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{AssetId}))`,
where

> - :math:`\mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{AssetId}) = \mathsf{EncodeAssetId}(\mathsf{ik}, \mathsf{asset\_desc}) := \mathsf{repr}_{\mathbb{P}}(\mathsf{ik}) || \mathsf{asset\_desc}\!`.

Reviewer 5: No need for the leading 0x00 anymore?

Reviewer 2: Have added the leading 0x00 back (though without the `length(ik)`) to allow for possible future versioning.
